# Alert Routing Howto

How to setup alert routing for your team.

## My stage group would like to receive Slack alerts when our components violate their SLOs

You must be in an elite stage group team! 😉🙂 Thank you for shifting right and focusing on GitLab.com.

Luckily, this is easy to configure.

Step 1: Update the `teams` section in the
[`teams.yml`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/blob/master/services/teams.yml)
file, with a new `team` entry or update an existing team entry, as follows:

```yaml
teams:
- name: runner
  product_stage_group: runner
  slack_alerts_channel: alerts-ci-cd
  send_slo_alerts_to_team_slack_channel: true
```

1. `name` is name, using alphanumeric characters only
1. `product_stage_group` should match the `group` key in https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/www-gitlab-com/blob/master/data/stages.yml
1. The `slack_alerts_channel` is the channel in Slack that the team would like to use for alerts (without the initial '#')
1. `send_slo_alerts_to_team_slack_channel` send regular SLO alerts to the slack channel.

Step 2: Profit! Any alerts with a matching `product_stage_group` will then be routed to that team.

**Note:** These alerts are currently only supported for Service Level Indicators with a fixed feature category.
Support for SLIs with a feature category available in the source
metrics will be added in [this
project](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/gl-infra/-/epics/615)

### Associating SLIs with your stage group

This step is not always required, as some components are already configured with a `feature_category`.

In the [metrics-catalog](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/-/tree/master/metrics-catalog/services), ensure that the SLI is
associated with a `feature_category` using the `featureCategory` annotation, as shown below.

Valid feature categories can be found in https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/www-gitlab-com/blob/master/data/stages.yml under the `categories` field.

```jsonnet
metricsCatalog.serviceDefinition({
  type: 'ci-runners',
  tier: 'runners',
  serviceLevelIndicators: {
    polling: {
      userImpacting: true,
      featureCategory: 'runner',
```

If the metrics for the SLI are shared across multiple features, for
example requests from the Rails app, please configure the feature
category using
[`serviceLevelIndicatorDefinition.featureCategoryFromSourceMetrics`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/blob/e45223016a4b6d169198e9773c001ae476e7947e/libsonnet/servicemetrics/service_level_indicator_definition.libsonnet#L244).

## My non-stage-group group would like to receive Slack alerts

Step 1: Update the [`teams.yml`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/blob/master/services/teams.yml) file, with a new `team` entry, as follows:

```yaml
teams:
- name: data-analytics
  slack_alerts_channel: data-prom-alerts
```

Step 2: Ensure that the alert has a `team` label to match the team name from the previous step. Note that YAML configuration
files prefixed with `autogenerated-` are generated from Jsonnet. Do not edit these YAML files directly: locate the source
Jsonnet file and include the label there instead.


```yaml
    - alert: AirflowDown
      expr: >
        count(avg_over_time(up{job='airflow'}[5m]) * 100 < 50)
      for: 10m
      labels:
        alert_type: cause
        severity: s4
        team: data-analytics
```
